The LaTeX Project Public License
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
LPPL Version 1.3c  2008-05-04

Copyright 1999 2002-2008
LaTeX3 Project
    Everyone is allowed to distribute verbatim copies of this license document, but
    modification of it is not allowed.


PREAMBLE
========

The LaTeX Project Public License (LPPL) is the primary license under which the
LaTeX kernel and the base LaTeX packages are distributed.

You may use this license for any work of which you hold the copyright and which
you wish to distribute.  This license may be particularly suitable if your work
is TeX-related (such as a LaTeX package), but it is written in such a way that
you can use it even if your work is unrelated to TeX.

The section `WHETHER AND HOW TO DISTRIBUTE WORKS UNDER THIS LICENSE', below,
gives instructions, examples, and recommendations for authors who are
considering distributing their works under this license.

This license gives conditions under which a work may be distributed and
modifies the normal process of modifying a work.  Instead of directly changing
a work that you have received, you are encouraged to copy the work and make any
changes to your copy.  You may then distribute the modified copy under the same
license, either changing its name or maintaining the same name as the original
work.

This license also provides for what we call the \emph{maintenance} of a work,
which is the ability for other people to take over the responsibility of
developing the work when the original author is no longer able or willing to do
so.  Maintenance under this license is quite different from traditional
software maintenance, so please read the `MAINTENANCE' section carefully.

The LaTeX Project Public License is copyright (C) 1999 2002-2008
The LaTeX3 Project.  All rights reserved.


DEFINITIONS
===========

In this license document the following terms are used:

  `Work'
    Any work being distributed under this License.  (This document is an
    example of a Work.)

  `Derived Work'
    Any work that under any applicable law is derived from the Work.

  `Modification'
    Any procedure that produces a Derived Work under any applicable law -- for
    example, the production of a file containing an identical copy of part of
    the Work, or the production of a file containing a translated version of
    part of the Work.

  `Modify'
    To apply any procedure that produces a Derived Work under any applicable
    law.

  `Distribution'
    Making copies of the Work available from one person to another, in whole or
    in part.  Distribution includes (but is not limited to) making any electronic
    components of the Work accessible by file transfer protocols such as FTP or
    HTTP or by shared file systems such as Sun's Network File System (NFS).

  `Compiled Work'
    A version of the Work that has been processed into a form where it is
    directly usable on a computer system.  This processing may include using
    installation facilities provided by the Work, transformations of the Work,
    copying of components of the Work, or other activities.  Note that this
    license places no restrictions on the format of a Compiled Work.

  `Current Maintainer'
    A person who is named as such in the Work.  If there is no Current
    Maintainer then the Work is `unmaintained'.

  `Base Interpreter'
    A program or process that is normally needed for running or interpreting a
    part or the whole of the Work.

    A Base Interpreter may depend on external components but these do not form
    part of the Base Interpreter as long as they are not packaged with it as a
    single unit.

    A Base Interpreter may be (but is not limited to) a `TeX engine' (such as
    TeX itself, pdfTeX, XeTeX, LuaTeX, etc.), or a format (such as Plain TeX,
    LaTeX, AMS-TeX, ConTeXt, etc.), or a `shell' (such as a Unix shell, a DOS
    shell, an MSWindows shell, etc.), or a graphics interpreter (such as
    MetaPost, MetaFont, GhostScript, etc.).


CONDITIONS ON DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION
===========================================

    1.  Activities other than distribution and/or modification of the Work are
        not covered by this license; they are outside its scope.  In particular,
        the act of running the Work is not restricted and no requirements are
        made concerning any offers of support for the Work.

    2.  You may distribute a complete, unmodified copy of the Work as you
        received it.  Distribution of only part of the Work is considered
        modification of the Work, and no right to distribute such a Derived Work
        may be assumed under the terms of this license.

    3.  You may distribute a Compiled Work that has been generated from a
        complete, unmodified copy of the Work as distributed under Clause 2
        above, as long as that Compiled Work is distributed in such a way that
        the recipients may install the Compiled Work on their system exactly as
        it would have been installed if they generated a Compiled Work directly
        from the Work.

    4.  If you are the Current Maintainer of the Work, you may, without
        restriction, modify the Work, thus creating a Derived Work.  You may, in
        addition, without restriction, distribute the Derived Work under the
        terms of Clause 2 above.  Distribution of only part of the Work under
        Clause 3 does not count as a modification and does not require this
        clause.

    5.  If you are not the Current Maintainer of the Work, you may distribute a
        Derived Work provided the conditions in Clause 6, below, are met.

    6.  You may distribute a Derived Work under the same conditions as in
        Clause 2 above provided that

        a.  Your Derived Work is distributed as a whole, meaning that all files
            that it contains must be distributed under this license.  If you
            want to distribute parts of your Derived Work under another license,
            then you must ensure that your Derived Work is clearly distinguishable
            from the Work, and that those parts of your Derived Work that you want
            to distribute under another license do not contain any substantial
            part of the Work.

        b.  You ensure that every copy of the Derived Work you distribute
            contains a prominent notice that the Derived Work differs from the
            Work.  Such notices must appear in each file of the Derived Work that
            differs from the Work.

        c.  You ensure that the Derived Work is not represented as being the
            original Work, either by explicit statement or implication.  The
            Derived Work must be given a different name from the Work.

        d.  You ensure that the Derived Work contains the location of the
            original Work (as it was distributed by the Current Maintainer) in the
            distribution information of the Derived Work.

    7.  If the Work is unmaintained, you may become the Current Maintainer by
        adding yourself to the list of Current Maintainers of the Work in the
        Derived Work in accordance with Clause 6 above.

        a.  If the Work is maintained, you can only become the Current
            Maintainer if the former Current Maintainer agrees to pass
            maintenance of the Work to you.

    8.  You may distribute a Derived Work that has been otherwise modified,
        even without respecting Clause 6 above, provided that you distribute the
        Derived Work with a request for permission from the Current Maintainer to
        distribute the Derived Work as part of the Work.

    9.  If you become the Current Maintainer of the Work, you should change the
        `Maintained by' field in the Work to your own name.  You should also
        ensure that the previous Maintainer is acknowledged.

    10. Whenever this license requires that a Derived Work be distributed under
        the terms of this license, the Derived Work may include files
        redistributable under different terms, provided that the new terms
        acknowledge the status of the Derived Work as a Derived Work of the
        Work.  That is, the new terms must acknowledge the source and must allow
        modification and redistribution of the Derived Work under the same terms
        as this license.


MAINTENANCE
===========

The Work has the status `maintained' if the Work is being maintained by at
least one Current Maintainer, or if the Work contains a statement that the Work
is maintained.  If the Work has the status `maintained' then the Current
Maintainer may make any changes to the Work, and these changes are considered
part of the Work.

The Work has the status `unmaintained' if it contains a statement that it is no
longer maintained.  If the Work has the status `unmaintained' then correctable
bugs may be fixed by anyone.  A `bug' is any malfunction (or potential
malfunction) of the Work that interferes with its ability to perform its
documented tasks.

If the Work is unmaintained and the copyright holder(s) agree, a person who has
corrected bugs may be named the Current Maintainer of the repaired Work.


LIMITATION OF LIABILITY
=======================

TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE WORK IS PROVIDED `AS IS',
WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT
LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE, OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.

IN NO EVENT WILL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER, THE AUTHORS, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY
COPY AND/OR (RE)DISTRIBUTE THE WORK AS PERMITTED IN SECTION 6 ABOVE, BE LIABLE
TO YOU FOR ANY DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THE WORK, WHETHER ARISING FROM
TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), CONTRACT, OR ANY OTHER THEORY OF LIABILITY, EVEN
IF SUCH PARTIES HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


WHETHER AND HOW TO DISTRIBUTE WORKS UNDER THIS LICENSE
======================================================

The following applies to any work that contains the notice

    This work may be distributed and/or modified under the conditions
    of the LaTeX Project Public License,
    either version 1.3c of this license or (at your option) any later
    version.  The latest version of this license is in
      http://www.latex-project.org/lppl.txt
    and version 1.3c or later is part of all distributions of LaTeX
    version 2008-05-04 or later.

and that is not part of the Work.  If your work is unrelated to TeX, and it does
not contain a notice as above, then you may omit the remainder of this section.

    1.  If you are the Current Maintainer of the work, you should include a
        statement on how people can contact you in case they have questions or
        need support.  If you are not the Current Maintainer of the Work, you
        should obtain permission from the Current Maintainer before distributing
        your modification.

    2.  Your distribution should contain a copy of this license and a statement
        of the status of the Work (maintained or unmaintained).

    3.  If you are not the Current Maintainer, you need to make sure you do not
        transfer the right of maintenance to another person.  This means that, if
        you plan to distribute a modification, then your modified work should
        include the name of the Current Maintainer in the `Maintained by...' field.

    4.  If your work is intended for use with TeX or related programs, we
        recommend that you include a `\ProvidesPackage' or `\ProvidesClass' (or
        similar) macro stating the name, version, and date of the Work.

    5.  If the Work is intended to be used with a format (such as LaTeX or a
        similar system), we recommend that you include a `\ProvidesPackage' or
        `\ProvidesClass' (or similar) macro in your file so that the version of
        the Work can be easily determined.  This will help users see whether they
        are using the latest version of the Work.

    6.  If you maintain a program that requires other programs to run, you
        should specify in your documentation which programs are required.

    7.  If you are not the Current Maintainer but would like to become one,
        you can ask the Current Maintainer to relinquish maintenance to you.
        If the Work is unmaintained, and you would like to take over maintenance,
        you can change the `Maintained by' field to your name.  In doing so you
        should include a statement explaining how people can contact you.

    8.  If you are not the Current Maintainer and you want to make a
        modification that does not create a Derived Work, you should contact the
        Current Maintainer and offer to collaborate with him or her.  Please do
        not distribute your modification separately, as that will confuse users.

    9.  The Work has status `maintained' if the Current Maintainer is willing to
        accept bug reports and fix bugs.  If the Work is unmaintained, please
        attempt to coordinate with other users to find a new maintainer before
        you take over maintenance.  This will help to ensure that the Work remains
        useful to users even after the original maintainer is no longer able to
        maintain it.

The LaTeX Project Public License, LPPL, was designed to address the special
considerations associated with writing and distributing programs for TeX,
including macro packages, fonts, and documentation, and the files generated by
these programs.  In addition to the general types of modifications of Programs
and Documentations that are usually permitted under free software licenses, this
license specifically allows for configuration changes that enable the Work to
work with other programs, configuration files, and build scripts.
